Fluids are essential for a
healthy functioning body.
They enable an array of processes,
including bioelectrical and digestive functions.
As water and other liquids
pass through the kidneys, they are processed
and waste is secreted with part of the water as urine.
body uses urine as one of the
primary ways to eliminate waste.
Urine receives its color
from the breakdown of red blood cells
and other substances
during normal cellular metabolism.
This process produces molecules of urobilin.
Your hydration level influences
the volume and color of your urine.
If you are well hydrated
your urine will appear clear.
Certain other substances, including foods,
alcohol and B vitamins can also affect
the composition and color of your urine.
If you are dehydrated,
your kidneys retain water
and you make less urine
and your urine takes on more of a yellow or brown color
due to higher concentrations of urobilin.
If your urine takes on a red cast,
you should visit a doctor.
It may be a sign of internal bleeding,
kidney disease or cancer.